Upgrading from srvx-1.3
-----------------------

Core changes:

 * There is a new mod-qserver module that allows direct connections to
   srvx.  There is no documentation on the protocol, but the file is
   under 250 lines long, so it shouldn't be hard to figure out.

 * There is a new mod-blacklist module that allows a blacklist based
   on DNSBLs and IP- and host-based text files.  See srvx.conf.example
   for details on how to configure this module.

 * Commands that use security overrides can be logged more easily.
   This includes, among many other things, adding or removing users in
   channels where the staff user would not normally have the necessary
   access.  These can be selected with the "staff" and "override" log
   levels.

 * The database writing code has been rewritten because the previous
   code performed much worse (for an unknown reason) on 64-bit
   machines than on 32-bit machines.  Now it is faster than ever on
   both types.

 * There is now native mingw support for Win32 builds that do not use
   the Cygwin libraries.  See Makefile.win32 for details.

 * The logger now avoids recursive logging to the same destination.

 * G-lines support the last-modification syntax introduced in
   ircu2.10.12.11.

 * srvx recognizes the +I (hide idle time) and +n (hide channel list)
   user modes and uses them appropriately when generating WHOIS
   responses.

 * srvx now re-reads translations from its "languages" directory on a
   ?rehash.

 * srvx now re-reads its own server name and description on a ?rehash.

 * srvx has several implementations of the ioset event loop
   (ioset-epoll.c, ioset-kevent.c, ioset-select.c, ioset-win32.c).
   The most efficient one supported by the OS should be selected
   automatically.

 * srvx has several implementations of its mail sending utility
   (mail-sendmail.c, mail-smtp.c).  The sendmail implementation is
   used on configure-based builds, and the SMTP implementation is used
   on mingw/Win32 native builds.

ChanServ changes:

 * Do-not-register (DNR) entries now have an expiration time.  The
   duration can be set to 0 to create a permanent entry; this is the
   default for pre-1.4 DNRs.  There is also a DNR search command that
   should be bound to ChanServ (/msg OpServ bind ChanServ dnrsearch
   *ChanServ.dnrsearch; likewise for its actions: dnrsearch\ print,
   dnrsearch\ remove and dnrsearch\ count).

 * Kick, ban and unban commands will now accept arguments of the form
   *ACCOUNT, affecting users with that account name.

 * The default titles "IRCOp", "network helper" and "support helper"
   can be localized using "CSMSG_OPERATOR_TITLE", "CSMSG_UC_H_TITLE"
   and "CSMSG_LC_H_TITLE" respectively.

 * The BANS command can search for users affected by a ban in addition
   to searching for matching ban patterns.

 * The SAY and EMOTE commands will now accept arguments of the form
   *ACCOUNT.

 * There is a new channel flag, Unreviewed, that can distinguish
   between automatically registered channels that have been reviewed
   against network policies by staff and those that have not.  The
   "unreviewed" search criteria can select channels without this flag.
   (/msg OpServ bind ChanServ set\ unreviewed *ChanServ.set\
   unreviewed; likewise for its values: set\ unreviewed\ on and set\
   unreviewed\ off.)

 * Changing the AutoInvite user option will warn if the user does not
   have enough access in the channel to be automatically invited.

 * The GIVEOWNERSHIP command requires a confirmation code.

 * ChanServ's event handling functions are only registered if it has a
   nickname set.  This makes it easier to disable ChanServ in one
   instance of srvx.  There are a few related changes in modcmd.c's
   permission and flag checks.

NickServ changes:

 * Notes on an account are now supported.  (/msg OpServ bind NickServ
   notes *NickServ.notes; likewise for the related addnote and delnote
   commands.)

 * The new command ODELCOOKIE has been added to do the hopefully
   obvious thing.

 * The new command CHECKEMAIL has been added to allow helpers to check
   whether an account's email address matches one known to the helper.
   This allows email visibility to remain limited.

 * The OUNREGISTER command now has two configuration options that may
   require a "force" parameter to be used: "ounregister_inactive" and
   "ounregister_flags".  See srvx.conf.example for details.

 * If you are using ircu2.10.12.x (you are, aren't you?), snircd, or
   any other ircd that supports account creation timestamps, you
   should consider the value of the NickServ "account_timestamp_mode"
   parameter in srvx.conf.  It can have these values:
    "ignore" (or anything unrecognized): Send the account registration
      timestamp but ignore the received value.
    "ircu": Send the account registration timestamp and require that
      it match for users from the network.
   The default is "ignore".

OpServ changes:

 * IPs with trusts or with active opers are protected from being
   accidentally affected by G-lines, TRACE KILL and TRACE GAG.  The
   "abuse" pseudo-criterion for TRACE now has a "trusted" option to
   override trusted IP protection (in addition to the previous, and
   independent, "opers" option).

 * The BLOCK command takes an optional duration after the target.
   Using this requires the same access level as the GLINE command.

 * There is a new FORCEKICK command that will allow opers to kick
   anyone (including remote +k users) from a channel.

 * The STATS GLINE command now accepts an optional target, to have it
   show the first known G-line matching that target.

 * srvx will no longer crash in OpServ's join checks if no OpServ bot
   is instantiated.

 * The TRACE command will now allow more than one "channel" criterion
   to be specified.  It also accepts a "target" pseudo-criterion that
   contains the name of a channel to receive the output.

Upgrading from srvx-1.2
-----------------------

Copy srvx.conf and your database files from your srvx-1.2 directory to
your srvx-1.3 directory.

Look over your srvx.conf and compare it to srvx.conf.example from
srvx-1.3.  Add any new settings you want to.

If you are using HelpServ, move the "helpserv" subsection from the
"services" section to the "modules" section.  Make sure you enable
the HelpServ module; see Q6 and Q8 in the FAQ.

You must update command bindings, because several common commands
moved in srvx-1.3.  If you have not added many custom bindings, the
easiest way to do this is to delete the "modcmd" section of srvx.db
(if you are using the "mondo" database layout) or delete modcmd.db (if
you are not using "mondo"); when you start srvx after doing that, it
will set up all the standard bindings.

If you have added many custom bindings, the following commands should
be bound to services:
        Service Name	Suggested Name	Binding
        ------------    --------------  -------
        NickServ
        ChanServ
        OpServ
(The above list is known to be incomplete.)
